===== VIDEO 1 | id=ldxFjLJ3rVY | title=How (and why) to take a logarithm of an image =====
Whenever I'm making one of these videos,  there's sometimes a special moment  where the act of animating  involves solving a whole bunch of little technical puzzlers  and then the underlying math I'm trying to explain  clicks for me in a way that it hadn't before  once I see it alive on screen.  The best versions of those moments often tell me  when a video is gonna be one of my favorites.  And putting together the end of this piece right here  was one such time when I got that feeling.  Our story doesn't actually start in the math classroom  today, we begin in the art room.  Imagine standing in a gallery looking at a picture  of a boat in a harbor and the whole world kind of warps  as your gaze shifts upwards and to the right  where you see a village on this waterfront.  Among the tightly clustered buildings,  the world warps even more as your gaze shifts  downwards to the entrance of one building,  leading to a hallway full of artwork.  And at the end of this hall, here you are again,  staring at a picture of a boat.  This is MC Escher's 1956 lithograph,  the print gallery, or in Dutch,  print and tunt and tunt stilling.  In a letter that he wrote to his son,  describing his creation of a young man looking with interest  at a print that features himself.  Escher called this the most peculiar thing I have ever done.  Which for him is saying a lot.  Escher's art is widely loved around the world,  frequently featuring paradoxical themes  or uniquely satisfying geometric patterns  with some kind of character.  This love is especially pronounced among mathematicians,  since his art often touches on surprisingly deep concepts  within math, despite the fact that Escher himself  had no formal training in the field.  The print gallery offers a perfect example of this unexpected depth.  In 2003, the mathematicians dismit and Lenstra  offered a delightful analysis of what's really going on in this piece  and the mind-bending self-contained loop that Escher managed to achieve.  One of my main goals with this video is to offer a visual unpacking  of their analysis, aiming as always, to give you a feeling  that you could have rediscovered this yourself.  Something that unexpectedly pops out of this analysis  is an answer to the question of what exactly should go in the middle of this picture.  At first, that might sound like an incoherent question.  If you come at it from the upper right, it feels like it should be featuring buildings  in the village, but coming at it from the left, it looks more like part of the picture frame.  Come at it from below, though, and it feels more fitting to be part of the gallery itself.  Somehow, all of the ambiguity about where exactly you are in this whole scene  is compressed into that blank circle in the middle.  And just for fun, since we're in the 2020s, I let a diffusion model take a stab at filling this in.  Unsurprisingly, it struggles immensely.  It just doesn't get it at all.  And giving the poor machine some credit, of course, it struggles.  This feels like an intrinsically ambiguous and ill-defined part of the scene.  But nevertheless, by the end, I hope that you'll agree there is one  and really only one completion that feels like the right puzzle piece that you can slot in.  Before diving into the math, I want to give you a purely intuitive description for how  Escher actually made this piece, which breaks up into three different steps.  Step one is to start out with a straightened out version of the same general concept where  a man is looking at a picture that picture contains a harbour, which contains a town  that contains a print gallery that contains that same man.  And so on and so forth, you could zoom in forever to your heart's content.  This idea of a self-similar image where the picture is contained inside itself  has a special name to graphic designers, it's known as the drosta effect,  named after a cocoa company that featured it in its branding.  In fact, the seems to have been a somewhat common marketing gimmick for all kinds of early 20th  century products. The self-similar drosta image that Escher was using, though, involves a much  much deeper zoom than any of these, where the self-similar copy is 256 times smaller than the original.  You'll see where that number comes from in just a minute. The genius of Escher is that he's somehow  intuitively realized there must be a way to take this concept of a picture nested inside itself  and turn it into this warped loop where the zooming in happens implicitly as a viewer's gaze  wanders around the circle. By the way, you might be wondering where I got this straightened out version,  and the answer is that those two mathematicians I referenced generously let us use it.  And this is something they actually reverse engineered from the original Escher piece,  using the help of two Dutch artists, Hans Victor and Jacqueline Hofstra. The way they reverse  engineered it is actually super interesting. In a certain manner of speaking, it involves taking  the logarithm of the original piece. I recognize that sentence probably sounds like nonsense right now,  but later on in this video, I promise that we'll make a button since. Now to outline the basic idea  for how Escher made this loop, I want to use an example that's simpler than the one that he was working with,  so we'll pull up this custom self-similar drosta image which has a pie creature looking at a framed picture  of a house where that same pie creature lives. In this example, the self-similar copy is only 16 times  smaller than the original, and this just makes everything much easier to see all at once. What I'll do  is keep a separate workspace on the right here to sketch out the general goal we have in mind.  Where the way you might think about it is that you want to distribute that 16-fold zoom-in factor  across the four corners of the square. For example, let's say you want the pie creature itself to  appear about at the same size in the low

===== VIDEO 2 | id=fsLh-NYhOoU | title=The most beautiful formula not enough people understand =====
Thank you very much. It is good to be here. I don't know if you people realize what a beautiful campus you have and how you basically just study in heaven.  Today I want to talk with you about what I think is one of the most underappreciated formulas, not because those who know it don't appreciate it, but because not enough people know about this.  And more importantly, not enough people understand where it comes from. And this should be one of the gems. This should be the e to the pie eye of the mathematical community.  But I really want you to come away knowing not just what it is, but why it's true and what it represents.  Now before I dive straight into it, I think the scene is best set if we start with two different puzzles.  The first puzzle is just going to give us a sense of the meaning of what we're about to do because it runs the risk of feeling pretty abstract.  And then the second puzzle is going to be a kind of forewarning, not to trust our intuitions. So let's start with the first puzzle. This is our warm up for today.  We're going to start by imagining that there's a random number. I'm going to call it x. It's going to sit between negative one, positive one, chosen uniformly.  x is going to have a friend, another random number, y, chosen between negative one and positive one uniformly.  And we're going to ask a question, a probability question about both of these, which is what's the probability that if you square x, and then you add it to the square of y, you end up with something which is less than or equal to one.  So let me tell this out to the audience. Anyone want to raise their hand and throw probability that you choose this random x, choose this random y.  The add there squares is going to be less than one. Let's see. So I see a blue shirt up here. Yeah, do you want to pass it up?  I mean, x plus my square makes like a unit circle. So my guess would be if we related to the area on the unit circle over the area of like a square.  So I asked this question, and immediately in your mind, there's an image that pops up. And the point I want to make is this is an analytical question.  This is just a question about two numbers. If you're savvy with your probability, you could set up some integrals not thinking about geometry and answer the question.  But that would feel a little bit like a crime. The questions kind of screaming out of you that it wants to be a picture.  The natural way that this wants to be answered is to think of that pair of numbers x and y as a point in a two dimensional space.  And that way, when you're thinking of a random choice for x independent from a random choice of y, you're choosing a random point inside.  Well, in this case, it's a square because from x equals negative one, positive one, same with y. So it's a two by two square.  Now the reason it's screaming out to be geometric is because this constraint of x square plus y squared being less than equal to one is the meaning of being inside a circle.  And it's saying, if x squared plus y squared is equal to one, that would actually land you on the boundary.  This follows straight from the Pythagorean theorem. You can draw a nice little right triangle, x gives you one leg, y gives you the other leg.  And you end up answering, in this case, area of that circle divided by area of the square. All you need to know is the area of a circle.  PyR squared, this is one of those formulas we learned in high school, so you can write down Py divided by four, oh well and good.  And then we could bump it up, I could say, what if instead of choosing two random numbers x and y, they had a third friend, z.  Same deal, uniform between negative one and one, you square it, you want to ask the probability that the sum of all those numbers is less than or equal to one.  In your mind's eye, it's screaming to you, hey, I want to be a three dimensional picture now. It doesn't have to be.  You could answer it purely analytically, but it would somehow feel wrong not to turn this into a three dimensional picture.  Because in this case, that constraint of x squared plus y squared plus z squared being less than one means sitting inside of a unit sphere.  And so in this case to answer the probability question, you just need to know what's the volume of that unit sphere as it compares to the volume of this two by two by two cube.  This is another one of those formulas, we might have learned in the middle school or high school volume of its sphere,  ends up being four thirds, pi times it's radius squared, radius in this case is one, you work it all out, and you get, I guess, a little bit 50%.  Now, there's no reason that we have to stop there, right? This is three numbers, but what if I ask about four numbers?  Now at this point, your mind's eye is going to start kind of squeaking a little bit, because I know what I want to be seeing right now.  In the same way that the first problem screamed out that it wants you to be thinking about a circle.  This one wants you to be thinking about whatever the four dimensional equivalent of circles and spheres should be.  But again, it's a perfectly reasonable question, it's a very empirical question, it's very real, and I don't have to stop there.  We can say what if you had a hundred different numbers, you add up all their squares and I want to know the probability that they add up to be something less than one.  To ask that question is to kind of force yourself to want to know the volume of a one hundred dimensional unit ball.  Now that might seem kind of weird, like if you just heard a mathematician off the street saying that they found some formula for the volumes of high dimensional balls,  that risk sounding like something which is just nonsense, right?  It's so divorced from reality because we're used to living in three dimensions, but the point I want to make is that higher dimensional geometry is real.  Just because it's not describing a literal physical space doesn't mean that it

===== VIDEO 3 | id=BHdbsHFs2P0 | title=The Hairy Ball Theorem =====
These days, whenever I look at the back of my beloved seven month old baby's head,  this little swirl of tiny hairs reminds me of one of the most ridiculously  named facts in math, the Harry Ball theorem.  I promise this is a genuinely serious bit of math,  where, informally, the statement is that if you have a ball, let's cover it in hair,  and you try to comb it down, there is no way to do it without having the hair stick up  at least one point. For example, let's say you try to comb it all counterclockwise around some  axis. Then at the top and the bottom, you end up with these little swirls,  and the hair at the centermost point of those swirls would have nowhere to go.  It's forced to stick up. It's actually very fun to play around with this in your mind,  where no matter how you try to flatten out the hair, it is a mathematical guarantee  that you will be left with at least one tough like this. In fact, even getting it down to just a  single problem point, as opposed to two, is a bit of a challenge. It is possible,  and if you like puzzles, I encourage you to try thinking of how it could work.  Later on in this video, I'm going to show you at least one way you can think about doing it.  For the moment, though, I imagine there's a more burning question,  which is that you might be wondering why a mathematician would care about combing fluffy spheres like this.  And of course, the answer is they don't, the name and the informal statement are a bit  tongue and cheek. I will of course share the more formal statement, and in fact, my real reason  for making this video is to share an unusually elegant way to prove it,  one that I think will delight any math levers. But before any of that, let's motivate things  with an example of the kind of situation where these fluffy spheres naturally arise in practice,  in a context that initially seems completely unrelated.  Okay, so imagine that you are a game developer, and you're programming some game where you have a  3D model of an airplane, and what you want is to be able to take an arbitrary trajectory for this plane  to fly along, presumably something user defined, and your job is to write a function that  orient the plane correctly as it moves along that trajectory. So for example, let's say you're at a  given point on some given trajectory, you obviously want to move the center of the model to be on that  point, but you're left with ambiguity on how it should be rotated in 3D space. The obvious constraint here  is that you know the nose of that plane should point along the tangent vector of the path,  but even that leaves some ambiguity, how is the plane rotated about this nose-to-tail axis?  One way you could think about defining that last degree of freedom is in terms of where this  perpendicular vector along the left wing direction points. The task for you, as the programmer of this  video game, is to figure out what that perpendicular wing direction should be at every single point  along a given trajectory. Now there is a correct way to do this, which would involve calculating the  second derivative of the trajectory, working out how to get this to match the lift force from the  wings together with gravity, but maybe that seems a little complicated right now, resourceful and lazy  programmer that you are, you might think, hey is there just some reasonable thing I can do to choose  some wing direction that's perpendicular to a given velocity vector, the heading direction of the plane?  Here's one way you might think about it. All of the possible ways this plane could point in space,  the various heading directions that I'm coloring and read, make up the points of a unit sphere.  What you want is to write a function that takes in a given vector on this sphere, and returns some  choice for a vector perpendicular to it, the ones that I'm coloring and pink. The only real constraint  is that you want this association to be continuous, otherwise it would mean the plane's orientation could  sharply jump, which would be a very clear glitch in the game. And if you know nothing else,  it really feels like this should be a possible task. After all, for a given heading direction,  you are not starved for choices, you have infinitely many wing directions to choose from,  an entire circle's worth of options. So how hard could it be to make some reasonable choice for  every point on the sphere that varies continuously? You might see where I'm going with this,  choosing a perpendicular direction like this is equivalent to choosing a unit tangent vector  to that point of the sphere. So if you're assigning a specific perpendicular to every possible  direction that plane could be pointed, that's basically the same thing as defining a tangent vector  at every point on a sphere. Now this is starting to look a little bit more like a Harry ball.  And in fact, now as good a time as any to step back and describe what the Harry ball theorem  actually says more formally. If you have a sphere and you choose some point on that sphere,  any plane tangent to the sphere at that point, then any vector that you choose within that plane,  which is rooted at that point, is called a tangent vector of the sphere. If you assign a tangent vector  to every single point on the sphere, one for each possible tangent plane, we call it a vector field on  the sphere. And whenever you're drawing vector fields like this, it's always standard to scale the  vectors down so that you can avoid clutter and the other thing to keep in mind is that even though  an illustration like this necessarily only shows a finite set of vectors rooted at a finite  set of points on the sphere, of course a vector field consists of infinitely many vectors,  one for every single point on the continuous surface. So the theorem, our main character for today,  states that if your vector field is continuous, meaning there are no sudden jumps in its direction,  then it must have at least one point with a null vec

===== VIDEO 4 | id=FE-hM1kRK4Y | title=Why Laplace transforms are so useful =====
I want to show you this simple simulation that I put together that has a mass on a spring,  but it's being influenced by an external force that oscillates back and forth.  Now, if there was no external force and you pull out this mass and you just let it go,  the spring has some kind of natural frequency that it wants to oscillate at.  But here when I'm adding that external force like a wind blowing back and forth,  it oscillates at a distinct unrelated frequency. What I want you to notice is how in the beginning  you get this very irregular looking behavior. It gets kind of stronger and then weaker and then  stronger again before eventually it settles into a rhythm. What specifically is going on there?  How could you mathematically analyze what exactly this weird wibbly start up trajectory is?  And could you predict how long it takes before the system hits its stride? And when it does hit that  stride, could you predict exactly how big this wings back and forth are?  One of the most powerful tools for studying systems like this and many, many others  is the Laplace transform. And today I want to show you exactly how it looks to use this tool  to study differential equations and analyze dynamic systems.  For context, this is the third chapter in a sequence all about this Laplace transform,  and is a very quick recap. In the first chapter, you and I became acquainted with functions that  look like E to the S times T, where S is a complex number, and the output of these functions  kind of spirals through the complex plane. The key concept you have to have in your mind is what  engineers call the S plane, which is the complex plane representing all possible values of this term  S in the exponent. The idea is to think of each point of the plane as encoding the entire function  E to the S times T, and the primary takeaway is that bigger imaginary values of S correspond to functions  with more oscillation than negative real parts reflect decay and positive real parts reflect growth.  The reason we care is that many functions in nature can be broken down into exponential pieces.  So what we want is a machine that exposes how that breakdown looks. This is the key motivation for  what Laplace transforms even are, and we unpacked that in some detail through the last chapter.  Again, in the spirit of a quick recap, the rough way this transform looks is that it takes a function of time  and translates it into a new language, turning it into a new function whose input is this complex number S.  The key conclusion from last time is that if your function really can be broken into exponential  pieces then when you plot this new transformed version over the S plane pulls in that plot corresponded to  the exponential pieces hiding inside the original function. Symbolically, this amounts to two key properties  that I want you to remember. Number one, if you pump in an exponential function, something like E to the A times T,  it transforms into one divided by S minus A, an expression which you should see in your mind's eye  as a function over the S plane with a pole above the value A. Number two, the transform is linear.  What this means is if you have a scaled sum of functions and then you transform them, it's the same  as applying the transform to each individual function and taking that same scaled sum of the results.  So for example, if your function going in really does look like a combination of exponential terms,  then what comes out looks like this sum of fractions, which you should read in your mind as an  expression with multiple different poles, each pole reflects one of those exponential pieces.  These two properties alone already give you a glimpse of why this is a helpful tool for getting a  qualitative sense for the dynamics of some situation. If you have some system evolving over time  and with techniques I'll show you shortly, you're able to find its Laplace transform.  Then when you see poles in this transform with imaginary values, that tells you,  hey, there's some kind of oscillation. If those poles have negative real values, that indicates  a tendency to decay towards zero, but any poles with a positive real part would indicate instability,  a tendency to explode away from zero. Often when you're studying physics, you don't know  immediately what function describes a dynamic system, but you do know a differential equation describing  it. What's neat is that there's a way to go directly from such a differential equation to the Laplace  transform of its solution. And this is useful both as an intermediate step to finding an exact  solution you can circle on your page, but also equally importantly, it's a meaningful representation  of the system in its own right. The ability to do this is going to rely on a third key property  that is worth remembering when that explains how exactly Laplace transforms can convert  differential equations into algebra, hence making them easier to solve. Here's how it looks.  If you take the derivative of some function, little f of t, with respect to time,  and then you take a Laplace transform of that derivative, the effect is the same as if you had first  applied the transform to the original function and then multiplied that result by s, at least almost.  There's also this additional term where you subtract off the initial condition,  subtracting the value of your original function little f at the time t equals zero. So in other words,  the transform turns differentiation in the time domain into multiplication over in the s domain.  Now this should feel very reminiscent of the fact that for exponential functions,  differentiation in time is the same as multiplication by s, and it's no coincidence,  ultimately the underlying reason is the same. Now at first glance, when you look at this rule,  that little minus f of zero term might seem like kind of an annoying quirk to an otherwise very elegant  equation, but really it's a feature, not a bug. As you apply

===== VIDEO 5 | id=j0wJBEZdwLs | title=But what is a Laplace Transform? =====
What you're looking at is somewhat complicated diagram that you and I are going to build up in this video  is a visualization unpacking the meaning behind one of the most powerful tools used to study differential equations.  It's known as the Laplace Transform.  This is one of those tools where as a student you can learn how to use it to solve equations  and yet be left completely in the dark about what it's actually doing.  Think about learning how to drive a car versus learning how an internal combustion engine works.  Both are worthy pursuits, one is not necessarily better than the other,  and in fact, driving is probably more practical.  But there is something deeply satisfying about popping up in the hood and understanding the mechanism inside.  Similarly, our main goal with this video is to pop the hood and show you some of the beautiful math that awaits us inside this object.  And strictly speaking, a lot of what I want to show is not necessary if your only goal is to solve equations.  That said, for the differential equations students among you, I think the content here should make the stuff you have to memorize a lot more memorable  and after dissecting this machine studying a piece by piece, you and I will take everything for a test drive and see what it looks like to solve a concrete and very interesting differential equation.  Now, before I just plopped down the definition on the screen, let's talk about what problem the Laplace Transform is trying to solve.  We set up a lot of this in the previous chapter, and there are two primary ideas worth restating here.  Number one, you need to understand exponential functions, and I'm always going to be writing these as E to the S times T.  T represents time, and then S is a number.  It determines what specific exponential we're talking about, but very importantly for this topic, we're going to give S the freedom to take on complex number values.  We covered this much more thoroughly in the previous chapter, but the quick summary is that if S has an imaginary part, the output of your function rotates in the complex plane as time takes forward.  When the real part of S is negative, the magnitude is decaying towards zero over time, but if it happens to be positive, that would mean the magnitude grows, namely growing exponentially.  If any of that feels shaky, or if you want to understand why it's true, do watch the previous chapter, but from this point forward, I'm assuming everybody is comfortable with this notion.  Why do we care that? Why the pub above about these functions? Well, it's because of the second thing you need to know, which is that a lot of functions, especially those arising in physics, can be expressed as combinations of exponential pieces.  There's one very friendly example that's going to be helpful to return to repeatedly throughout this lesson, the cosine of T.  This, on gelating function, can be broken up as a sum of two purely imaginary exponentials.  Basically, if you take E to the i times t, that gives you rotation counterclockwise, and E to the negative it rotates the other way.  So when you add these two together, perhaps imagining adding two rotating vectors tip to tail, the imaginary parts can't select each other out, and what you're left with is something whose output remains locked to the real number line, oscillating back and forth.  Now as it stands, this sum goes between negative two and positive two, but a cosine only goes between negative one and one, so finally you multiply everything by one half.  More complicated functions might break down into more exponential pieces. For example, later in this lesson, you and I are going to dig into something called the driven harmonic oscillator, which is basically a mass on a spring that's influenced by some external force, in our case, one that oscillates over time.  As a spoiler, the solution to the equation describing that ends up looking like a sum of four exponential pieces.  Two of those pieces oscillate in decay in a way that matches the natural resonant frequency of the spring, and then the other two oscillate in a way that matches the external force.  So for cases like this and many others, what we would like is some sort of tool, some sort of mathematical machine, where you can pump in a function, or even a differential equation describing that function,  and that machine will somehow reveal for us what specific exponential pieces that function breaks down into.  That is, it exposes what these values S in the exponent all are, as well as what the corresponding coefficients are.  Now you might be wondering why exponential pieces, why not focus on something else.  The short answer is that for these functions, when you take a derivative, it looks precisely the same as multiplying by some number, namely S.  What you'll see by the end is how this means that same machine that lets us dissect functions into exponential pieces,  also allows us to turn differential equations into algebra.  Essentially, because everywhere you see a derivative, it turns into multiplication by S.  Now in a context like this one, where we are so focused on complex valued exponentials,  engineers have a special name for this complex plane that I'm depicting on the left,  representing all possible values for that term S in the exponent. They call it, well, the S plane.  A helpful mental image is to think of each individual point on the S plane, as encoding the entire exponential function E to the S times T.  For this picture, the graphs I'm showing only depict the real component of the output, but keep in mind.  Each point is representing the full complex valued function. These graphs are enough for intuition, though.  You'll notice how bigger imaginary parts correspond to faster oscillation, and then as your eyes scan from left to right, the real part reflects either decay or growth.  So with this as our goal, the machine that you and I are going to build up today,  the one that e

===== VIDEO 6 | id=-j8PzkZ70Lg | title=The Physics of Euler's Formula | Laplace Transform Prelude =====
This is the first video in a trilogy aimed at demystifying the Laplace Transform, a powerful tool for studying differential equations.  Although we won't dig into the Laplace Transform itself until the next two chapters,  everything that we cover here sets up the mental frameworks and the prerequisite knowledge  that make understanding that Transform as easy as I know how.  This video is a lot more than just preamble, though. It's a very fun lesson in its own right  about how one of the most famous equations in all of math enables a bizarre trick for solving  an equation that is used ubiquitously throughout physics. The main characters throughout this chapter  and the next two are exponential functions, and I'm always going to be writing these as E to  the S times T. Here we think of T as being time, and then S is just some number, determining  which specific exponential we're talking about. One of the big aims of this video is to motivate  using physics, why it's useful to give S the freedom to take on not only real number values,  but complex ones as well. But wait a minute, what does it even mean to shove a complex number into an exponent?  Here I imagine there's a bit of a divide in the audience. You see there's some regular viewers of  math videos online for whom the specific case of plugging in pi times i is a little bit cliche by this  point. It is amply covered by many videos on YouTube. But on the other hand, most students find this to  be an understandably baffling notion. Given how absolutely fundamental this is to everything that follows,  even if you fall into that first camp, I hope you will agree that it's worth kicking things off  here by reviewing a very beautiful and visual way to understand what this idea is all about. The nice part  is that what follows doubles as a gentle warm-up for visualizing and thinking about differential equations.  You start with the fact that E to the T is its own derivative, and really you should think of  this as what defines the number E. Exponentials with other bases will have derivatives that are  proportional to themselves, but E is the special number such that that proportionality constant is one.  Now very often in a calculus class you visualize derivatives as slopes of graphs, that's all well and good,  but it's not the only way. You should get in the habit of flexing your mind a bit more. For example,  let's say you think of this as telling you the position of some point on the number line  as a function of time. Then what the derivative expression is telling you is that at every moment,  the velocity vector must look identical to the position vector. And more specifically,  because you know that E to the zero equals one, anything to the zero is one, you also have an initial  condition. It's telling you you start at the number one. So at the very first moment, the velocity is  also one, meaning it's pointed to the right, but the farther to the right the position gets,  the faster it must move. So even if you had never heard of the function E to the T or exponential  growth, this property alone is enough to give you a very visceral feeling for how it gives a value  that grows and at an accelerating rate. But what if there was some constant in that exponent,  like E to the two times T? Well, by the chain rule, the derivative is then two times the function itself,  and reading this dynamically, it's telling you the velocity vector is always two times the position  vector. Again, the farther to the right, the position gets, the faster it must move, but this time,  the feeling is that that growth gets out of hand all the more quickly. What if that constant was negative,  say, negative zero point five? Well, once again, by the chain rule, the derivative of this function  is negative zero point five times the function itself. So at every moment in time, that velocity vector  looks like a 180 degree rotation of the position vector, but scaled down to be half its length.  This means you start moving to the left, but as you approach zero with a smaller position vector,  that velocity must get proportionally smaller. So it approaches zero, but at an ever-slowing pace.  This, of course, is exponential decay. But now for the fun part, why we're here in the first place,  what if that constant was an imaginary number? I, the square root of negative one. Again,  the chain rule tells us that the derivative of this function is going to be i times the function itself.  Geometrically, multiplying by i acts like a 90 degree rotation. So this is telling you,  velocity always has to be perpendicular to position. For anyone who's a little bit rusty,  your needs a quick review with complex numbers. Let's say you have an arbitrary complex value,  a plus, b i, which you typically draw in the 2d plane like this. The easiest way to think about  multiplying by i is to go component by component. A times i ends up on this vertical imaginary line.  And then b i times i is b i squared, which is negative b. This is where you actually use the defining  property of i. And you'll notice each of those two individual components is rotated 90 degrees.  So the sum is a whole, also has to get rotated 90 degrees. Looking back at the equation,  where this time, evidently, we must be thinking about position as being in the complex plane.  Even if you had never heard of raising e to an imaginary number. And even if it's not  clear at first what that would actually mean, the expression is telling you that this value has to  move in such a way that the velocity vector is always locked to be a 90 degree rotated copy of the position  vector. The only motion that satisfies this criterion is rotation around a circle. And you can be more  specific. Because the initial position is one, that velocity vector always has a unit length.  So this tells you how fast you have to move. Your point wanders around that circle  in such a way that it traces one unit of arc length for every unit of ti

===== VIDEO 7 | id=M-MgQC6z3VU | title=What was Euclid really doing? | Guest video by Ben Syversen =====
This is the fifth and final in a series of guest videos that I've been putting up on the channel.  The context in case any of you miss the first one is that I've been away on leave this summer.  And I decided to use the Patreon funds that were coming into the channel during that time to commission a few guest videos from creators  way and very excited to share with this particular audience.  By the way, I am back to making my own videos now, currently working on a trilogy about the Laplace Transform.  The first of which is available as an early view for channel supporters, just, you know, throwing that out there.  This last guest video is probably the most different from the channel's usual vibe, and yet I'm as confident as ever that viewers of this channel will thoroughly enjoy it.  It comes from Ben Saverson, who is a very talented and I think under-appreciated creator, who makes these great mini documentaries about the history of math and science.  The content here changed the way I think about Euclid and the history of geometry, and perhaps it will for you as well.  This is the most influential math book in human history, Euclid's elements.  For 2000 years, it was the ultimate authority for absolute mathematical truth, an enduring symbol of exact reasoning from the ancient Greeks.  But the Greeks didn't approach math the way we do today.  Their methods fly in the face of some of the most important rules of modern practice.  But yet, the approach that Euclid used in the elements was the most successful way to discover mathematical truth until the 17th century.  ruler and compass constructions.  But how could physical tools like these actually be a reliable way to do abstract math?  Understanding what the Greeks were really doing starts with the question that anybody who's ever had to use a ruler and compass in geometry class has probably asked.  What's the point?  What are these constructions actually for?  Most people would probably assume that the ruler and compass are basically a way of drawing nicer looking shapes,  like there are a quaint way of doing it if you don't have a computer.  And while that's not entirely wrong to the ancient Greeks, it's far from the whole story.  To them, diagrams weren't just incidental schematic illustrations.  They were part of the reasoning of the proof itself.  This is not how we do math today.  Today, every single logical assumption needs to be explicitly stated, like a line of code,  and a proof isn't considered valid until it's completely independent from any diagram.  But in Euclid's elements, the compilation of Greek math from around 300 BC, things are different.  In Euclid's very first proof, he makes what modern mathematicians would consider to be an unstated assumption, basically of mistake.  To try to spot what Euclid missed in proposition one of the elements, you have to also know what his stated assumptions were.  Before he writes any proofs, he lays out some definitions, five logical assumptions called common notions, and five assumptions about geometry called postulates.  Whenever one of these is used in a proof, it'll show up on screen.  We can read this proposition as a recipe for constructing an equilateral triangle using a ruler and a compass.  You start with a line segment AB.  When you draw these two circles centered at A and B that each have AB as a radius, like this, then you get this intersection point.  Connecting the dots gives you another radius of each circle, and of course we know that the radius of a circle is the same length everywhere.  So this is equal to this and this is equal to this.  Since two things that are equal to the same thing are also equal, Euclid proves that he's made an equilateral triangle.  Did you catch the unstated assumption? You never proved that the two circles overlap each other.  This should have been some other axions. There should have been something else that said, how we know when the two circles overlap and when they don't.  But there's another way of looking at this. Rather than making a mistake by relying on the diagram, the Greeks were arguably using this series of steps to build the equilateral triangle as part of the proof itself.  This is the perspective of Victor Blasjo, who hosts the excellent podcast opinionated history of mathematics, which features an 18 episode season about Euclid's elements and the history of geometry.  When people say there is a gap in the proof, I think it is like an anacronistic way of thinking about it.  The existence need to be ensured by a new axiom that's the way modern logic nerds think it's supposed to be in right.  But in the spirit of the times, we should start by thinking of mathematical proofs as something that arose alongside the Greek tradition of antagonistic debate.  You have somebody trying to prove a claim, and they're confronted by a skeptic who wants to prove them wrong.  The proof is saying now, carry out these steps. The skeptic is then asked to perform these steps and had literally just drawn this in front of their very own eyes.  And then the skeptic is supposed to or say, oh, no, I don't think they need to say it. There's no credibility. You know, you're just through it is right there. Anybody can see, you know, you just look, make it look ridiculous.  The modern mathematics, you think of the skeptic as if it was like a logic machine who's just like crunching axioms like a machine doing calculations, you know, and then, oh, there's no axiom here error error.  But that's not the context we must visualize, you know, we must think of the degrees we're doing this with the skeptic wants to say, I think maybe they don't intersect them.  The burden is on him to give a credible way that you could doubt that these are, but if you literally just drew it in front of you and it's obviously cutting right through it, there's nothing you can say that has any credibility to try to get around the fact that obviously they intersect, you know, like any 

===== VIDEO 8 | id=_BrFKp-U8GI | title=Exploration & Epiphany | Guest video by Paul Dancstep =====
Imagine yourself in an art museum.  As you stroll through the galleries, you come across a large, low table covered in small,  white, skeletal frames.  Each looks like a random fragment of a cube and they're all laid out in an orderly grid.  What we're looking at is a digital reproduction of an artwork called variations of incomplete  open cubes by saw-luid.  It represents every possible way that a cube can be incomplete, subject to a few conditions.  In this video, you and I will investigate this sculpture and explore some of the mathematical  ideas behind it.  We'll get to know these cubes, making visualizations, observing patterns, and asking simple  questions with surprising answers.  Although I've tried to make these explorations accessible and playful in the end, we'll  stumble into a highly non-trivial result, a lovely classical technique and ingenious trick  for counting cubes by thinking about symmetry.  But first, let's get a little more specific about what we're looking at here.  First of all, a cube is, of course, a regular, six-sided shape.  By open cube, we mean a hollow cube framed by its 12 edges.  We can make an open cube incomplete by selecting one of these edges and getting red of it.  By removing other edges, we can create different variations.  The first of Louis constraints is that the existing edges must all be connected.  We can't remove so many edges that the cube falls apart into separate pieces.  The second constraint basically says that the existing edges have to form an obvious cube.  If we reduce our cube down to say a flat square, we're going to say that doesn't count.  Nor does anything less, a corner, a single edge, or nothing at all.  Our cubes must be properly three-dimensional, meaning they have to have at least one edge along  the height, width, and depth of the cube.  To understand the final constraint, let's bring in another open cube and make it incomplete.  This may look different than the first cube.  But if we grab it and tumble it around like this, we can see that it is actually the same incomplete  open cube.  We were just looking at it from a different angle.  In fact, if we played around with this shape long enough, we would eventually discover that there  are 24 different ways we can reposition it, each of which looks unique from the others but  all fundamentally the same shape.  In the final art piece, it would be a little redundant to include all of these rotationally  equivalent figures, so we just choose one to represent the whole family.  We then place this representative on the table.  The next cube will be rotationally distinct from this one, a genuinely different shape.  The next cube is rotationally unique from those, and so on for the whole table.  The final work of art shows the full collection of 122 rotationally unique incomplete open  cubes.  One of the interesting things about this piece is that the entire definition can be put  into explicit mathematical terms.  In the business, you might rephrase this as an enumeration of all proper subsets of a cube  that are connected and span R3 module rotations.  If you told the mathematician to find such an enumeration, this table is basically what they would  come up with.  So we have something interesting.  An artist who effectively solved a math problem as part of his creative process, who was  solowet, and what was he trying to accomplish with this piece.  Solowet was a modern artist associated with conceptual art, minimalism, and serial art.  The core idea of conceptual art can be seen in the little series of wall drawings.  Louis would provide a set of instructions for how a wall should be drawn or painted on, in  this case, while drawing number 18, he specifies a drawing with 50 points all connected by lines.  Trained installers would then follow these instructions to produce the actual piece on  the walls of galleries and museums.  Like a musician writing a score to be performed by others, Louis instructions emphasize the conceptual  nature of the resulting work.  It's the idea of the piece that is the true product of the artist.  And perhaps, as most well-known quote, Louis said, the idea becomes a machine that makes art.  Minimalism is to some degree exactly what it sounds like.  Louis's work uses very minimal ornamentation.  Much of it is flat white because, as he put it, white is less expressive than black.  And most of the sculptures are simple geometric forms, like the cube.  Of the cube, he wrote, the most interesting characteristic of the cube is that it is relatively  uninteresting.  Therefore, it is the best form to use for any more elaborate function, the grammatical device from  which the work may proceed.  In the prior decade, modern art was dominated by abstract expressionism, famous for paintings  filled with splatters and splotches and other acts of randomness.  Serial art was a reaction to this arbitrariness.  Louis, it's not instead a technique in which he said, all of the planning decisions are made  beforehand and the execution is a perfunctory affair.  Many of Louis's serial structures begin with the question, how many ways?  Like, how many ways can I put five cubes on 25 squares?  Or how many ways can I stack three open boxes?  Resulting artworks are simply a presentation of the correct answers to these questions.  Sometime in 1973, Louis asked himself a new serial art style question, how many ways can  a cube be incomplete?  And we have something pretty amazing, a surprisingly intact record of the artist's thought  process as he went about solving this problem.  Solowit left behind about 50 notebook pages, which shows sketches and working drawings that  capture the development of the incomplete open cubes.  These are currently in the archives at the Wadsworth Athenium in Connecticut, who are  kind enough to let us examine these drawings and reproduce them here.  By reviewing their contents, we effectively get to look over solowit's shoulder as he solves  

===== VIDEO 9 | id=itRV2jEtV8Q | title=Simulating and understanding phase change | Guest video by Vilas Winstein =====
This is a video about phase transitions.  Our main goal will be to study a simulation of a discretized fluid model, which has a phase  transition as the parameters are varied.  That's what you're looking at right now, and it's called the liquid vapor model.  To understand how this simulation works, we'll need to introduce one of the most important  formulas and physics, the Boltzmann formula.  Then we'll see how you could build this simulation yourself, and we'll investigate some  of the very interesting behavior that it exhibits.  By the way, this video is part one in a two-part series.  The follow-up is live now on the spectral collective channel.  There we'll look at a simplified version of the liquid vapor model, which we can essentially  completely understand using basic mathematics.  Okay, so what is a phase transition?  You might remember from a chemistry class that phase transitions are not chemical reactions.  The molecules of ice are the same as those in water and steam.  It's all H2O.  The different phases of matter correspond to different ways in which the molecules interact with each  other.  For instance, in ice, the molecules are locked into a rigid structure, and the interactions span  long distances.  In other words, if you push on one end of an ice cube, the other end moves.  This doesn't happen for water, and it definitely doesn't happen for steam.  There is still some semblance of long range interaction in water, though, since ripples can travel  pretty far.  However, if you move one small region of steam a little bit, there is pretty much no effect  on another distant location.  You've probably seen a phase diagram like this one before.  It tells you what phase of matter you'll observe if you have a bunch of H2O molecules at various  temperatures and pressures.  Crossing any of these lines between phases results in a phase transition.  This is not something that happens suddenly in real time, as you probably know from waiting for  water to boil.  Instead, the phase of a system refers to its equilibrium behavior, which is what you see after  the system has had enough time to settle down.  The equilibrium behavior is determined by only a few parameters, in this case, temperature  and pressure.  And a phase transition is a discontinuity in the equilibrium behavior as a function of the  parameters.  Something you might not have seen before is that there are actually at least 19 different types  of ice, but that's beyond the scope of this video.  Also at very high temperatures and pressures, there's something over here called a super critical  fluid, which varies continuously between liquid and gas.  This means that by moving the parameters through this region, you can actually get steam from  water without ever witnessing a phase transition.  One of the main goals of this video is to introduce the liquid vapor model, which is a  discretized model of a fluid in this region of the phase diagram.  Here's what that looks like again.  Each blue pixel on the screen represents a molecule, and each white pixel represents an empty  space.  We have a control panel here, which also shows the phase diagram where we can set the values  of two parameters, which control the behavior of the simulation.  T is the temperature, and you might be expecting pressure for the second parameter, but it  turns out that pressure is a bit tricky to work with in a simulation like this, so we use  a different parameter called the chemical potential instead.  Just to clarify this point, let me say that there's a nice correspondence between various  pairs of thermodynamic observables, which I'll say more about later in the video.  Temperature is paired up with energy, pressure is paired up with volume, and chemical potential  is the thing which is paired up with the molecule count, or the number of molecules.  We'll get into the details of this later, but for now just know that if we have a system at  a specific fixed temperature, then it turns out we have to allow the energy to vary slightly,  and how it varies is determined by the specific temperature we set.  In the same way, if we wanted a system at a specific pressure, we'd have to allow the volume  to change, and this isn't so easy to do in a simulation like the one I'm showing you, since  the state of this simulation is represented in my computer by an array of fixed size.  Instead, we'll allow the number of molecules on the screen to change, in a way that's controlled  by this other parameter, the chemical potential.  At high chemical potential, there will generally be more molecules on the screen and vice versa.  Increasing the number of molecules has a somewhat similar effect to decreasing the volume,  since both of these increase the density of the molecules, and this is why the chemical  potential is at least an okay stand-in for pressure.  Now, although you might have some intuition for it, the temperature is actually a little bit  more mysterious.  It controls how important the energy is, and in our simulation, the energy corresponds to how  clumped up the molecules are.  We'll understand much more about this later, but for now just notice that at high temperatures,  having molecules clumped up next to each other doesn't matter so much, and randomness is  the key factor instead.  When we vary the chemical potential at high temperatures, the density of the molecules  vary smoothly without a phase transition, and this is like the supercritical fluid region of  our real phase diagram.  But at low temperatures, once we cross a certain threshold, a phase transition begins to happen,  and the density goes from very low, like a gas, to very high, like a liquid, skipping all  the intermediate values.  Due to the nature of the simulation, the number of molecules on the screen still has to change  gradually, and the phase transition doesn't happen all at once.  But during the phase transition, every region of the picture is either mostly blue or mos

===== VIDEO 10 | id=4NlrfOl0l8U | title=The AI that solved IMO Geometry Problems | Guest video by @Aleph0 =====
In January 2024, Google DeepMind released an AI model called Alpha Geometry, which could solve  geometry problems from the International Mathematical Olympiad, or the IMO.  The IMO is the highest level of competitive math contest at the high school level.  Every year, more than 100 countries send 16 agents to represent them at the competition.  Each country has its own elaborate system of contests leading to their choice of six representatives.  When Alpha Geometry was tested on a database of 30 geometry problems, it solved 25 of them.  This is better than the performance of a silver medalist.  This is quite understandably generated a lot of buzz.  But here's what nobody talks about.  The most surprising part for me is not that AI managed to solve these problems, but it's what happened even before the AI showed up.  A 25-year-old technique with no AI at all, just using logic and peer equation solving,  was already able to solve 18 out of 25 problems.  That's already a bronze medal at the IMO.  And then the model hit a wall.  There were problems that even this ingenious logical model wasn't able to solve.  And that's where AI comes in.  But instead of leaving everything to AI, the DeepMind team very cleverly integrated the logical model with an AI component  in order to reach their spectacular result of 25 out of 30 problems.  So in this video, yes, I do want to talk about AI in geometry.  But before that, I also want to talk about how a non-AI model was already better at geometry than the vast majority of humans.  So with that, let's begin.  Our test today is simple.  Build a bot that can solve IMO geometry problems.  But I'm going to make a caveat to make our problem a little bit harder.  Write a bot that solves IMO problems with no AI.  To begin attacking this, we're going to use a well-kept secret about geometry problems.  A few key facts can get you very far.  For example, here are two important facts from geometry.  One, when two lines cross, the opposite angles are equal.  And two, if these two horizontal lines are parallel,  and you look at the z over here in blue,  the angles on the inside of the z are equal.  With these two facts alone, we can already prove a non-trivial theorem.  In this diagram, the two orange angles alpha are equal.  If you apply our two facts one after another, it proves our theorem.  Now this is how far we could get starting with two facts.  Now imagine how far we could get if we started off with ten facts or fifty facts or a hundred facts.  The space of theorems we could prove would get larger and larger.  In October 2000, the researchers two,  Gow and Zhang released a paper that did precisely this.  In their paper, they made a database of 75 geometry rules.  Applying these facts in various combinations,  the researchers could solve some very hard geometry problems.  These rules start out simple, like the ones I've written on screen.  But as you go on, the rules get more complicated, like the rule at the bottom of the screen.  But how do you feed all these diagrams into a computer?  Well, then I agree to do it would be to plot everything on desmos using explicit equations.  But I think we can both agree that that's far too clunky.  Another alternative is using a language that's specifically designed for a theorem proving.  The predominant language in this regard is called lean.  While lean is really great for things like algebra and inequalities,  at the moment it's not very well suited for Euclidean geometry.  To get around this, the authors used a more niche language that's specifically designed for geometry.  Now, to the best of my knowledge, this language doesn't yet have an official name,  and is only described in research papers.  Here's what it looks like.  Say we want to represent this problem over here to a computer,  which says that a triangle with two equal sides has two equal angles.  In the specialized machine language, you'd write it like this.  ABC points, which means that there are three points ABC.  AB equals AC, which means that the sides AB and AC have the same length.  Goal, angle ABC equals angle BCA, which means that the goal is to show that these two angles are equal.  The researchers call this method deductive database, or DD for short.  The word database suggests that you're starting with a database of key facts,  and deductive means that you're deduccing new theorems from those key facts.  So how do they perform?  Well, out of 30 geometry IMO problems, it's solved seven of them.  Now, there are two ways to look at this.  On one hand, seven out of 30 isn't very much.  It's not even an honorable mention at the IMO.  On the other hand, the fact that brute force,  can solve even one of the IMO problems is incredibly impressive.  IMO problems are very hard.  So how do we bring this score up?  On one hand, we could just throw a hand in the air and say,  okay, we need AI to make it better.  But that's not quite true, because DD has a fundamental limitation that we have an address yet.  DD can't solve equations.  This is a problem.  To see why, I'm going to tell you about a theorem called Thales' theorem.  The angle in a semicircle here is always a right angle.  Here's a short proof using equations.  Draw a third line connecting the third point to the center.  Then the three lines I'm marking over here are all radii of the circle,  so they have the same length.  Therefore, the two smaller triangles are both isosolese.  Their opposite angles are equal.  Since the angles of the big triangle ABC sum to 180 degrees,  we have two alpha plus two beta equals 180 degrees.  Dividing both sides by two, alpha plus beta equals 90 degrees.  But alpha plus beta is the angle ABC, so we're done the theorem.  Solving linear equations is something that computers can do very well,  just using linear algebra.  So the deep-minded researchers implemented this in their model  and called it algebraic reasoning or AR for short.  So to recap, we have two modules s
