===== VIDEO 1 | id=CAsKpXoxZAQ | title=20. Persia - An Empire in Ashes | 3275 chars total =====
In the year 1618, the Castilian Spaniard, Garcia de Silva, Ifiqueroa, was travelling through  the heartlands of Persia, in what is today Iran. By then, Fiqueroa was about 61 years of age,  a venerable statesman who had set out from Spain four years earlier as an ambassador from King  Philip III. His mission was to meet with the Shah of the Safavid Persian Empire, Flatter and  befriended him and encouraged him to go to war with their common rival, the Ottoman Empire.  But Fiqueroa's embassy got off to a bad start. When he arrived at the Shah's court,  the Persian ruler tried to entertain his guest with a display of dancing girls, but the aging  and Pius Spaniard was unimpressed. Fiqueroa later wrote about what happened in his ambassadors report.  What is due to your virtue? When we know that the real reason is the impotence of your advanced age.  At this, he and the other two ambassadors burst into laughter.  Now that he was an object of ridicule, Fiqueroa's diplomatic aims would also come to nothing and he soon  left the Shah's court, despondent with his mission in ruins.  The old Spaniard set out on the journey home, but on his way, he consoled himself by taking in some  of the sights of the lands of Persia. Traveling through the mountainous region of the Iranian plateau,  he and his guides enjoyed the fruitful lands still watered by ancient aqueducts.  They praised the many palm trees and fruit orchards that are irrigated with that good water  for their beauty and pleasant appearance, especially the many orange and lemon trees, which produced  sweet lemons. These can be compared to the other ones from Valencia, Spain. In fact, they may even be better.  It was while traveling through this pleasant region known as the marve dashed plateau,  along the main road between Isfahan and Shiraz, that his guides recommended they stop at a place  that was surrounded by folklore, myths and mystery. It was a sight they called Shahel Minar,  which in Persian means the 40 pillars. As they approached and Fikwaroa caught a glimpse of it  in the mouth of a wide valley, he would have found out why. On the horizon, for the towering shapes of a  great number of massive stone columns, witching up into the sky. This was the Arbid Pasta Dobramino,  Sikaminoporuna Ermosavega, Gordadakon mucho sarroyos, after crossing the river Gramier,  we travel through a beautiful valley, where the river fed many streams and ditches. Many populated villages  and large herds of cattle of all kinds could be seen. Finally, from a distance, we could see the highest  of the columns or minarets of Chihel Minar, only visible through a thick forest of orchards at  the foot of a torment. As they drew nearer, they caught sight of what lay ahead of them,  a sprawling mass of impressive ruins, carved from massive blocks of black stone.  This was the Arbid Pasta Dobramino, after the Ambassador had eaten and rested,  he was filled with the desire to see this famous and great structure that was so worthy of examination  and study, not only because of its antiquity, but also because of its independence and magnificent  size. Especially since no one else had ever written the kind of accurate and erudite description it  is earned, in fact, of the revaluation that meresia.

===== VIDEO 2 | id=qRYdivPIWh4 | title=20. Persia - An Empire in Ashes | 3311 chars total =====
In the year 1618, the Castilian Spaniard, Garcia de Silva, E. Figueroa, was traveling through  the heartlands of Persia, in what is today Iran. By then, Figueroa was about 61 years of age,  a venerable statesman who had set out from Spain four years earlier as an ambassador from King  Philip III. His mission was to meet with the Shah of the Safavid Persian Empire, Flatter and  befriended him and encouraged him to go to war with their common rival, the Ottoman Empire.  But Figueroa's embassy got off to a bad start.  When he arrived at the Shah's court, the Persian ruler tried to entertain his guest with a display  of dancing girls, but the aging and pious spaniard was unimpressed. Figueroa later wrote about what  happened in his ambassador's report.  Figueroa was trying to deceive us, leading us to believe that it is due to your virtue. When we know  that the real reason is the impotence of your advanced age. At this, he and the other two ambassadors burst  into laughter.  Now that he was an object of ridicule, Figueroa's diplomatic aims would also come to nothing, and he soon left  the Shah's court, despondent, with his mission in ruins. The old spaniard set out on the journey home,  but on his way, he consoled himself by taking in some of the sights of the lands of Persia.  Traveling through the mountainous region of the Iranian plateau, he and his guides enjoyed the  fruitful lands, still watered by ancient aqueducts.  They praise the many palm trees and fruit orchards that are irrigated with that good water for their beauty  and pleasant appearance, especially the many orange and lemon trees which produced sweet lemons.  These can be compared to the other ones from Valencia, Spain. In fact, they may even be better.  It was while traveling through this pleasant region known as the marve dashed plateau,  along the main road between Isfahan and Shiraz that his guides recommended they stop at a place  that was surrounded by folklore, myths and mystery. It was a sight they called Shahel Minad, which in  Persian means the 40 pillars. As they approached and Fikwaroa caught a glimpse of it in the mouth  of a wide valley, he would have found out why. On the horizon, with the towering shapes of a great  number of massive stone columns, reaching up into the sky.  We travel through a beautiful valley, where the river fed many streams and ditches, many populated  villages and large herds of cattle of all kinds could be seen. Finally, from a distance,  we could see the highest of the columns or minarets of Chahel Minad,  only visible through a thick forest of orchards at the foot of a tall mountain.  Lechos, they are known as the Speso bosque de Werdas al pied de un agrenciéra.  As they drew nearer, they caught sight of what lay ahead of them,  a sprawling mass of impressive ruins, carved from massive blocks of black stone.  This was the abir comido irre possado el embajador. After the ambassador had eaten and rested,  he was filled with the desire to see this famous and great structure that was so worthy of examination  and study. Not only because of its antiquity, but also because of its independence and magnificent  size. Especially since no one else had ever written the kind of accurate and erodied description it  is that of the translation that I mentioned?

===== VIDEO 3 | id=PdFwMDuAnS4 | title=19. The Mongols - Terror of the Steppe | 3052 chars total =====
Around the year 1333, the North African writer and traveller, Ibn Bhatt,  went on a journey around all of Asia that would take him to India and over the sea to Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Malaysia and eventually  on to his final destination of China. But the first leg of this journey took him along the winding  roads over land from Constantinople. He travelled past the shores of the black and  Caspian seas over vast grasslands and on southwards through the deserts of Central Asia, in what  is now Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Ibn Bhattuta had heard marvelous stories about the  opulent cities that lay along the vast trade route known as the Silk Road, which laced across  the continent of Asia. These were the cities of Balk, Bukhara and Samarkand.  First he visited the city of Bukhara once the jewel of Islamic learning, a city of enormous  libraries and colleges. But to his disappointment, when he arrived he found the city a much  reduced place, as he wrote in his journal. We travelled for a whole day through contiguous  orchids with streams, trees and habitations and arrived at the city of Bukhara. This city was  formerly the capital of the lands beyond the river Jai, but was laid in ruins, so at the present  time it's mosques, colleges and bazaars are in ruins, all but a few, and it's inhabitants. I'll look  down upon. There is not one person in it today who possesses any religious learning, or who shows  any concern for acquiring it. Surprised at the sorry sight of the once great city of Bukhara,  Ibn Bhattuta continued on to the opulent metropolis of Samarkand. I journeyed to the city of Samarkand,  once one of the greatest and finest of cities, and most perfect of them in beauty. It is built  on the bank of the river called the Waddle Wasserin, along which there are water wheels to supply water  to the orchids. But when he arrived at the oasis of Samarkand, he found it too was in a much diminished  state. The city was sparsely inhabited, its legendary walls torn down long ago, and its grand buildings,  standing in ruins. There were formerly great palaces on the riverbank, and constructions which bear  witness to the lofty aspirations of the townsfolk, but most of this is obliterated. And most of the  city itself has also fallen into ruin. It has no city wall, and no gates, and there is vegetation  growing inside it. Ibn Bhattuta soon left that melancholy place, and continued on his journey.  Finally he passed through the city of Bukh, now in northern Afghanistan. This had once been another  wealthy trade hub, and a center for the Zoroastrian religion. From a distance he could see its  tall buildings rising out of the river plains. But as he got closer, he saw no smoke of cooking fires,  no animals in the fields, no traffic of people in its streets. An eerie feeling must have crept up on  him.  Next we cross the river giant into the land of Khorasan, and marched for a day and a half, crossing  the river through uninhabited desert and sands to the city of Bukh. It is completely dilapidated.

===== VIDEO 4 | id=YyqS9V7yHQA | title=19. The Mongols - Terror of the Steppe | 3032 chars total =====
Around the year 1333, the North African writer and traveller, Ibn Bhattu,  went on a journey around all of Asia that would take him to India and over the sea to Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Malaysia and eventually  on to his final destination of China. But the first leg of this journey took him along the winding roads  over land from Constantinople. He travelled past the shores of the Black and Caspian seas over vast  grasslands and on southwards through the deserts of Central Asia, in what is now Kazakhstan,  Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Ibn Bhattu had heard marvelous stories about the opulent cities  that lay along the vast trade route known as the Silk Road which laced across the continent of Asia.  These were the cities of Balk, Bukhara and Samarkand.  First he visited the city of Bukhara once the jewel of Islamic learning, a city of enormous  libraries and colleges. But to his disappointment when he arrived he found the city a much reduced  place as he wrote in his journal. We travelled for a whole day through contiguous orchards with  streams, trees and habitations and arrived at the city of Bukhara. This city was formerly the capital  of the lands beyond the river Jai but was laid in ruins so at the present time it's mosques,  colleges and bazaars are in ruins all but a few and it's inhabitants. I'll look down upon  there is not one person in it today who possesses any religious learning or who shows any concern for  acquiring it. Surprised at the sorry sight of the once great city of Bukhara, Ibn Bhattu  to continued on to the opulent metropolis of Samarkand. I journey to the city of Samarkand once one of  the greatest and finest of cities and most perfect of them in beauty. It is built on the bank  of the river called the Wadil Wasserin along which there are water wheels to supply water to the  orchids. But when he arrived at the oasis of Samarkand he found it too was in a much diminished state.  The city was sparsely inhabited its legendary walls torn down long ago and it's ground buildings,  standing in ruins. There were formerly great palaces on the river bank and constructions which  bare witness to the lofty aspirations of the townsfolk but most of this is obliterated and most of  the city itself has also fallen into ruin. It has no city wall and no gates and there is vegetation  growing inside it. Ibn Bhattu to her soon left that melancholy place and continued on his journey.  Finally he passed through the city of Bukh now in northern Afghanistan. This had once been another  wealthy trade hub and a center for the Zoroastrian religion. From a distance he could see it's  tall buildings rising out of the river plains but as he got closer he saw no smoke of cooking fires,  no animals in the fields, no traffic of people in its streets and eerie feeling must have crept up on  him. Next we cross the river giant into the land of Khorasan and marched for a day and a half,  crossing the river through uninhabited desert and sands to the city of Bukh. It is completely dilapidated.

===== VIDEO 5 | id=YpKej05RgsY | title=18. Egypt - Fall of the Pharaohs | 3371 chars total =====
Around the year 1200 AD, the medieval Arab traveller and scholar, Abt-A-Latif Al-Bakdadi, departed from his hometown of Baghdad and set out on a journey of exploration.  As a young man, Al-Bakdadi had studied law, medicine and philosophy and was inspired by the works of classical philosophers in particular Aristotle.  At the turn of the 13th century, Al-Bakdadi embarked on a series of journeys that would take him to many of the great cities in the region.  He travelled to Mosul to Jerusalem, Damascus and Aleppo and eventually around the year 12004, his journey took him across the Sinai desert to the banks of the Nile.  On his travels, Al-Bakdadi wrote a book that was part travel account and part philosophy, entitled The Book of Edification and Admonition.  In it, he recalls the remarkable impression that Egypt made on him.  Egypt is a land of wondrous monuments and strange stories.  It consists of a valley enclosed by two ranges of hills, one to the east and one to the west.  The Nile runs between them until it reaches lower Egypt where it divides into branches, all of which flow out into the sea.  The Nile is unusual for its length. We know of no other river in the inhabited world that covers a greater distance.  He is now in the upper part of the world and he is now in the upper part of it.  As Al-Bakdadi travelled around Egypt, he was struck by the incredible variety of ancient remains he saw, great temples of stone and tomb complexes, crumbling beside the waters of the Nile.  But none of these compared to the most fabled of all Egypt's monuments, which rose over the horizon,  not far from the city of Memphis, at a place called Giza.  Other pyramids, they are very numerous, all are situated on the Giza side of the Nile and extend in the direction of Memphis,  spread out along a distance of about two days journey.  Some are big, others small, some are of clay and mud brick, but most are of stone.  Some are stepped, but most of them taper smoothly.  And of all these pyramids, three stood out for their seemingly impossible immensity.  Turning to the pyramids that everyone talks about, points at and characterizes in terms of their sheer size,  there are three laid out in a straight line at Giza.  Two of them are particularly enormous, and there is with these two that the poets have been infatuated.  The spectacle is so awe-inspiring that your sight will falter as you try to take it all in.  Al Baghdadi wrote accounts of the local people who lived close to these vast remains.  He describes some who climbed to the tops of these structures and others who quarried them for their fine cut stone.  Others still became obsessed with exploring the hidden tunnels and chambers that branched out beneath the pyramids.  In one of the great pyramids, there is an opening that allows people to gain entry.  It leads them into narrow corridors, labyrinthine passageways, well shafts, pitfalls and other such features as appear in the accounts of those who venture inside and explore the innermost parts.  Many people obsessed by the pyramid and filled with fancyful ideas about it are inspired to penetrate its depths.  But they always end up at some place beyond which they cannot go.  They spoke of how the pyramid was full of bats and how these bats grow to the size of pigeons.  There are inscriptions on the stones written in the ink.

===== VIDEO 6 | id=2cuh1oxLHDU | title=18. Egypt - Fall of the Pharaohs | 3316 chars total =====
Around the year 1200 AD, the Medieval Arab Traveler and Scholar, abbed a Latif al-Bakda  The party departed from his hometown of Baghdad and set out on a journey of exploration.  As a young man, Al-Bakdaadi had studied law, medicine and philosophy and was inspired  by the works of classical philosophers in particular Aristotle.  At the turn of the 13th century, Al-Bakdaadi embarked on a series of journeys that would  take him to many of the great cities in the region.  He travelled to Mosul to Jerusalem, Damascus and Aleppo and eventually around the year  1204, his journey took him across the Sinai desert to the banks of the Nile.  On his travels, Al-Bakdaadi wrote a book that was part travel account and part philosophy  entitled The Book of Edification and Admonition.  In it, he recalls the remarkable impression that Egypt made on him.  Egypt is a land of wondrous monuments and strange stories.  It consists of a valley enclosed by two ranges of hills, one to the east and one to the west.  The Nile runs between them until it reaches lower Egypt, where it divides into branches  all of which flow out into the sea.  The Nile is unusual for its length.  We know of no other river in the inhabited world but covers a greater distance.  When he traveled around Egypt, he was struck by the incredible variety of ancient remains  he saw, great temples of stone and tomb complexes, crumbling beside the waters of the Nile.  But none of these compared to the most fabled of all Egypt's monuments, which rose over  the horizon, not far from the city of Memphis, at a place called Giza.  The ancient monuments in Egypt are such as I have never seen nor heard Tel Aviv in other lands.  First among them are the pyramids.  They are very numerous, all are situated on the Giza side of the Nile and extend in the direction  of Memphis spread out along a distance of about two days journey.  Some are big, others small, some are of clay and mud brick, but most are of stone, some  are stepped, but most of them taper smoothly.  And of all these pyramids, three stood out for their seemingly impossible immensity.  Turning to the pyramids that everyone talks about, points at and characterizes in terms of their  sheer size, there are three laid out in a straight line at Giza.  Two of them are particularly enormous, and there is with these two that the poets have been  infatuated.  The spectacle is so awe-inspiring that your cycle falter as you try to take it all in.  Al Baghdaddy wrote accounts of the local people who lived close to these vast remains.  He describes some who climbed to the tops of these structures and others who quarried  them for their fine cut stone.  Others still became obsessed with exploring the hidden tunnels and chambers that branched  out beneath the pyramids.  In one of the great pyramids, there is an opening that allows people to gain entry.  It leads them into narrow corridors, labyrinthine passageways, well shafts, pitfalls, and  other such features as appear in the accounts of those who venture inside and explore  the innermost parts.  Many people, obsessed by the pyramid, and filled with fancyful ideas about it, are inspired  to penetrate its depths.  But they always end up at some place beyond which they cannot go.  They spoke of how the pyramid was full of bats.

===== VIDEO 7 | id=6dbdVhVSat8 | title=17. Carthage - Empire of the Phoenicians | 3714 chars total =====
In the year 1858, the French novelist Gustav Floubert arrived in North Africa, hoping to find inspiration for his latest book.  Floubert was a seasoned traveler, and a decade or so earlier had embarked on a grand tour of Cairo, Constantinople, Greece and Italy.  But the writer who now departed on this new set of travels was like a different man.  Although only 37 years old, he was plagued by sickness and prone to fits of depression.  And the novel he had been working on for the last year was threatening to drive him mad.  The publication of his most famous work two years before, the novel Madam Bovery, had bought him fame and wealth,  but now he was attempting to write a piece of fiction quite unlike anything he had ever attempted.  It would be a story from classical history that took place in an empire that had once flourished in the north of Africa  had become the most powerful society in the ancient world, and then had vanished in its entirety more than 2,000 years ago.  An empire that had been largely forgotten, beside the more well-studied societies of classical Greece and Rome.  This was the empire of Carthage.  He had spent the last months locked up in his study like a Hermit, surrounded by the work of ancient historians,  trying to bring the lost city of Carthage back to life.  But the writing just wouldn't come, as he wrote to his friend Ernest Fedo.  I'm done for my friend.  Done for.  For the past month I found it impossible to write.  I can't find a single word.  Just think of what I've let myself in for.  To precipitate an entire civilization with nothing whatsoever to go on.  Flowbear made the decision that something would have to change.  He wrote of his intentions to his friend, Mademoiselle, Leroyade, a Shwantpe.  I absolutely must take a trip to Africa, so toward the end of March I'll return to the land of dates.  Once again, I live on horseback and sleep under a tent.  I need only to go to El Gif and explore the environments of Carthage in order to acquaint myself thoroughly with the landscapes I'll be describing.  When he arrived in Tunisia, Flowbear jotted down hurried impressions in his notebooks,  as he explored the ruins of the ancient cities of Utica and Carthage.  Now all but buried beneath the modern Tunisian capital of Tunis.  In the green wheat full of flowering poppies, the road climbed little,  sloping to the left and arrives at a valley.  Flat plains in the middle had a league's distance, ruins like palm trees,  here and there blocks of masonry.  We are walking on the remains of a Roman road.  As he walked among the ruined walls of this ancient city,  Flowbear felt himself connected to the ancient people he had been trying to write about.  And saw ways of life that must have remained almost unchanged since the days of Carthage.  In the south, the village of City Bullseight, the sea behind, like a great block of Indigo.  All Carthage now stretches out before me.  A camel on a terrace turning a well.  Flies are buzzing, weeds hang from the halls like chandeliers.  A bird takes flight with the sound of a wing, another sings, very fine dust, silence,  green marks on the walls, vivid and thick water in some basins.  By the time he had finished his wanderings, among the Carthaginian ruins of Tunisia,  Flowbear had decided to completely rewrite the draft of his book,  as he writes to Madamwazel of Shantpy.  Everything I had done on my novel has to be done over.  I was on the wrong track entirely.  So it turns out that a little over a year since I first had the idea for the book,  and after working hard on it, most of that time, I'm still only at the beginning.  Armed with his Tunisia notebooks, Flowbear finished his book.

===== VIDEO 8 | id=2mqX9twdyYo | title=17. Carthage - Empire of the Phoenicians | 3727 chars total =====
In the year 1858, the French novelist Gustav Floubert arrived in North Africa, hoping to  find inspiration for his latest book.  Floubert was a seasoned traveler and a decade or so earlier had embarked on a grand tour  of Cairo, Constantinople, Greece and Italy.  But the writer who now departed on this new set of travels was like a different man.  Although only 37 years old, he was plagued by sickness and prone to fits of depression,  and the novel he had been working on for the last year was threatening to drive him mad.  The publication of his most famous work two years before, the novel Madam Bovery, had bought  him fame and wealth, but now he was attempting to write a piece of fiction quite unlike  anything he had ever attempted.  It would be a story from classical history that took place in an empire that had once flourished  in the north of Africa, had become the most powerful society in the ancient world, and  then had vanished in its entirety more than 2,000 years ago, an empire that had been largely  forgotten, beside the more well-studied societies of classical Greece and Rome.  This was the empire of Carthage.  He had spent the last months locked up in his study like a Hermit, surrounded by the work of ancient  historians, trying to bring the lost city of Carthage back to life.  But the writing just wouldn't come, as he wrote to his friend Ernest Fedo.  I'm done for my friend.  Done for.  For the past month I found it impossible to write, I can't find a single word.  Just think of what I've let myself in for, to necessitate an entire civilization with nothing  whatsoever to go on.  So bear made the decision that something would have to change.  He wrote of his intentions to his friend, Mademoiselle, La Royade, a Shantapy.  I absolutely must take a trip to Africa, so toward the end of March I'll return to the land  of dates.  Once again I live on horseback and sleep under a tent.  I need only to go to Elgif and explore the environments of Carthage, in order to acquaint myself thoroughly  with the landscapes I'll be describing.  When he arrived in the French colony of Tunisia, Flober jossed down hurried impressions  in his notebooks, as he explored the ruins of the ancient cities of Utica and Carthage, now all  but buried beneath the modern Tunisian capital of Tunis.  In the green wheat full of flowering poppies, the road climbed little, sloping to the left and  arrives at a valley, flat plains in the middle had a league's distance, ruins like palm trees  and here and there blocks of masonry, we are walking on the remains of a Roman road.  As he walked among the ruined walls of this ancient city, Flober felt himself connected to  the ancient people he had been trying to write about, and saw ways of life that must have  remained almost unchanged since the days of Carthage.  In the south, the village of Sidipusade, the sea behind, like a great block of Indigo, all  Carthage now stretches out before me, a camel from a terrace turning a well, flies a buzzing,  weeds hang from the halls like chandeliers, a bird takes flight with the sound of a wing,  another sings, very fine dust, silence, green marks on the walls, livid and thick water  in some basins.  By the time he had finished his wanderings, among the Carthage and ruins of Tunisia, Flober had  decided to completely rewrite the draft of his book, as he writes to Madamwazel of Ashant  Lee, everything I had done on my novel has to be done over, I was on the wrong track entirely,  so it turns out that a little over a year since I first had the idea for the book, and after  working hard on it most of that time, I am still only at the beginning.  Found with his Tunisia notebooks, Flober finished his book.

===== VIDEO 9 | id=0MtIVJ2lcu8 | title=16. Bagan - City of Temples | 3554 chars total =====
Towards the end of the 13th century, around the year 1293, the Venetian explorer and adventurer  Marco Polo was travelling through southeast Asia.  In the region of what is today, Myanmar or Burma.  Marco Polo had spent much of the last 20 years travelling around the Asian continent in a remarkable  series of journeys along the ancient routes known as the Silk Road and recently he had  come into the employment of the Mongol Emperor of China, a man named Kublai Khan.  Impressed by this foreign visitor, the Emperor had appointed Marco Polo and Ambassador and  he was now travelling through the forested mountains of southwestern China that now stand  on the border of Myanmar.  He passed through these jungle hills, thick with bamboo forests and shaded groves and then  down into a wide river valley full of wild animals.  Having the province of Kardanda, you enter a vast descent, which you travel without  variation for two days and a half, in the course of which no habitations are to be found.  You then reach a spacious plain, beyond this, in a southern direction, towards the confines of India,  lies the city of Myanmar.  The journey occupies 15 days through a country much depopulated and forests are bounding  with elephants, rhinoceroses and other wild beasts, where there is not the appearance of any  habitation.  In this country, we have found many elephants, large and handsome wild oxen with stags, followed  here and other animals in great abundance.  And finally, after more than two weeks, Marco Polo came across a large city, and it was  a city that, despite all he'd seen on his travels, still stood out to him for its size and  magnificence.  A city where more than 4,000 golden temples sent their spires, lancing up into the afternoon  air, over the flat pan of the river valley.  After the journey of 15 days that has been mentioned, you reach the city of Myanmar, which  is large, magnificent, and the capital of the kingdom.  The inhabitants are idolaters, and have a language peculiar to themselves.  It is related that they are formally reigned in this country, a rich and powerful monarch.  The city that Marco Polo called Myanmar had fallen on hard times, everywhere homes were abandoned  and temples had fallen into disuse and disrepair.  There would have been the signs of war, hungry and displaced people on the streets.  But over these sorry sites, the golden shrines of the city towered, and attested to its former  magnificence, and of all of these two enormous temples stood out in particular.  When his death was drawing near, the King gave orders for erecting on the place of his  internment at the head and foot of the sepulka, two pyramidal towers, entirely of marble, ten  places in height, of a proportionate bulk, and each terminating with a ball.  One of these pyramids was covered with a plate of gold and inch in thickness, so that nothing  beside the gold was visible, and the other with a plate of silver of the same thickness.  Around the balls were suspended small bells of gold and of silver, which sounded when put  in motion by the wind.  The whole formed a splendid object.  Years later, he would return to Italy, and fall on the wrong side of a war between the city  states of Genoa and Venice, and he would be thrown in prison by the Genoese.  He would share his jail cell with a writer named Rusta Kellow Dapiza, who was greatly impressed  with Polo's tales of his travels, while waiting in prison for the war to end.  The pair of them worked to clarify Polo's memories, and write them down in

===== VIDEO 10 | id=ZR48gFySJoM | title=16. Bagan - City of Temples | 3526 chars total =====
Towards the end of the 13th century, around the year 1293, the Venetian explorer and adventurer  Marco Polo was traveling through southeast Asia, in the region of what is today Myanmar or Burma  Marco Polo had spent much of the last 20 years traveling around the Asian continent in a remarkable  series of journeys along the ancient routes known as the Silk Road and recently he had come into  the employment of the Mongol Emperor of China, a man named Kublai Khan.  Impressed by this foreign visitor, the Emperor had appointed Marco Polo and Ambassador, and he was  now traveling through the forested mountains of southwestern China that now stand on the border  of Myanmar. He passed through these jungle hills, thick with bamboo forests and shaded groves,  and then down into a wide river valley full of wild animals.  Leaving the province of Cardenda, you enter a vast descent, which you travel without variation  for two days and a half, in the course of which no habitations are to be found. You then reach a spacious  plane, beyond this, in a solid direction towards the confines of India lies the city of Myanmar.  The journey occupies 15 days, through a country much depopulated and forests abounding with elephants,  rhinoceroses and other wild beasts, where there is not the appearance of any habitation.  In this country were found many elephants, large and handsome wild oxen, with stags,  follow deer and other animals in great abundance. But finally, after more than two weeks,  Marco Polo came across a large city, and it was a city that despite all he'd seen on his travels,  still stood out to him for its size and magnificence. A city where more than 4,000 golden  temples sent their spires, lancing up into the afternoon air over the flat pan of the river valley.  After the journey of 15 days that has been mentioned, you reach the city of Myanmar, which is large,  magnificent, and the capital of the kingdom. The inhabitants are idolaters,  and have a language peculiar to themselves. It is related that they're formally  rained in this country, a rich and powerful monarch. The city that Marco Polo called Myanmar  had fallen on hard times. Everywhere homes were abandoned and temples had fallen into disuse and  disrepair. There would have been the signs of war, hungry and displaced people on the streets.  But over these sorry sites, the golden shrines of the city towered and attested to its former  magnificence, and of all of these two enormous temples stood out in particular.  When his death was drawing near, the king gave orders for erecting on the place of his  internment at the head and foot of the sepulka, two pyramidal towers, entirely of marble,  ten paces in height, of a proportionate bulk, and each terminating with a ball.  One of these pyramids was covered with a plate of gold and inch in thickness, so that nothing beside  the gold was visible, and the other with a plate of silver of the same thickness.  Around the balls were suspended small bells of gold and of silver, which sounded when put  in motion by the wind. The whole formed a splendid object.  Years later, he would return to Italy and fall on the wrong side of a wall between the city states  of Genoa and Venice, and he would be thrown in prison by the Genoese. He would share his jail cell  with a writer named Rusticello Dapiza, who was greatly impressed with Polo's tales of his travels.  While waiting in prison for the war to end, the pair of them worked to clarify Polo's memories  and write them down in v-
